# Kickstarter-Analysis
Performing analysis on Kickstarter data to uncover trends
## Overview of Project
This project involves narrowing the given data to present the client with only the information that is relevant to her interests.  The client is Louise and she created a play named Fever that did not reach the required fundraising goal.  In order for her to have a successful campaign in the future, we are presenting her with information that can assist her next launch attempt.  The data includes a wide variety of categories that will be observed in analysis to result in a conclusion.    
### Purpose
The purpose of this analysis is to provide Louise feedback on the launch dates and funding goals of campaigns that are similar to hers.  By reviewing the entire theater category, she can determine if her campaign was running at pace with her competitors.  With 1,396 campaigns within the theater category we can give her a broad overview.  Looking at the launch dates can provide her with the understanding of how the time of year can impact fundraising.  As the failure to reach her goal for the campaign was an issue, she does want to know how other campaigns that launched at the same time was impacted.  Another aspect she wants to know is whether the amount she was asking for with this campaign is the average for the industry.    
## Analysis and Challenges
There are multiple categories for campaigns, however we only want to review the theater portion.  Under the main category theater, we observe that there are three subcategories that are related.  The three subcategories are musicals, plays, and spaces.  We are able to review the amount of time that campaigns take to achieve funding.  The data shows how many individuals are supporting each campaign.  Knowing if there is a direct correlation between a successful campaign and the number of individuals supporting it would help Louise think of the outreach she should conduct.         
The challenge is to present the information to Louise in a way that she can easily understand.  We want to make sure that we provide accurate and coherent data.  Another challenge is misunderstanding her request and presenting the data in a way that she had not asked. 
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
May has the highest success rate for theater productions.  December is the only month that has the same amount of successful campaigns as ones that failed.  The amount of successful campaigns is significantly higher than ones that failed.  The total amount of campaigns that are launched stay relatively consistent each month with November and December being significantly lower. There were no canceled campaigns in the month of October.  The highest amount of failed campaigns for one month is 52. 
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
More campaigns are launched with smaller goal amounts.  Campaigns with a goal less than $1,000 have the highest success rate.  With a higher goal amount the percentage of failed campaigns greatly increases.  There were no campaigns canceled that reflected any of the goal ranges we reviewed.  The goal ranges from $1,000 – $4,999 has the highest number of total projects.  Campaigns with a goal that is greater than $50,000 surprisingly had more total campaigns than goals ranging from $25,000 - $49,999.   
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
A challenge that I did encounter was structuring the COUNTIFS statement correctly to ensure that I was inspecting the entire range for the goal amount.  In order to overcome this challenge, I watched the video that was provided within the module to clear up the confusion.  Another difficulty I faced was that the graph for the “Outcomes Based on Launch Date” was not matching the result I was supposed to have.  In order to clear up this issue I went to chart types and discovered that my graph was stacked creating a different result.    
## Results
### What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?
One conclusion is the number of cancellations throughout the year remain consistent and low.  Another conclusion is the summer months of May, June, and July is the ideal time frame for a successful theater campaign.   
### What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
The goal amount needs to be under $14,999 in order to have at least a 54% chance of being successful.  Campaigns with a goal amount of over $45,000 have a starting failure rate of 88%. 
### What are some limitations of this dataset?
Some limitations to the dataset are we are only reviewing the larger category not the specific subcategory of “play.”  Also, we did not graph her play to show exactly how her campaign performed alongside the main outcomes.  Another limitation is there are multiple countries that are listed under the theater category and this regional element can be affecting the results.  These campaigns are from different years meaning that we are not showing Louise a direct comparison of when she was raising money at the same time other campaigns were.   
### What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
We could create a graph that included Louise’s play to show her exactly how her campaigns performed against the others.  Creating a graph that shows the average donation for each successful campaign in relation to the goal could help Louise meet her fundraising goal for her next campaign.  
